mediators are working to try to secure a
ceasefire deal between Hamas and Israel
this week the US president suggested an
agreement was imminent but Hamas
downplayed his optimism saying it had
yet to receive a proposal the US state
department however remains hopeful our
goal is to achieve a deal to uh reach a
humanitarian pause and the release of
hostages as soon as possible certainly
we' welcome getting one by this weekend
um what I can say about the overall
progress is that we made significant
progress towards an agreement last week
when uh we had uh officials from the
United States government engaging in the
region we continue to pursue further
progress this week American officials
across the government continue to be
engaged on this question um we are
trying to push this deal over the Finish
Line we do think it's possible earlier
my colleague Rob meths spoke to bessim
name the head of political and
international relations for Hamas he
says Washington's words and actions are
contradictory if the Americans are want
to be really optimistic they have to end
this double standard games they talk on
one tongue for stopping the uh
aggression or for the for achieving a
seed fair and avoiding broadening the
the conflict into the region but at the
same time they are using the veto in the
security Council to to reach a SE where
they are approving 14 billion do for for
Israel they
are securing Israel with more ammunition
I think uh more or less I can see that
this optimism is not related to the
reality on the ground and it is more
part of the internal American politics
in the year of the election um I know
that Hamas has said that it has yet to
receive any sort of proposal for a
ceasefire there have of course been a
lot of leaked details cently about some
sort of ceasefire given what you know
about the possibility of what might be
out there is there anything that Hamas
would be prepared to be flexible on
Hamas have showed from the beginning
great flexibility uh to achieve a seare
because we know
every added day to this Slaughter means
100 to
150 new civilians Palestinians killed
people are in the northern part of Gaza
Strip are dying because of starvation we
know exactly what does it mean our
families are still there in the Gaza
City and in the northern part of the Gaz
St but at the same time this flexibility
cannot be at the cost of our main and
strategic goals for example we are
looking not for a a humanitarian pose or
a humanitarian ceasefire we are looking
for a final total comprehensive ceas we
are looking for a total withdrawal of
the Israeli Army Israeli forces from the
Gaza Strip we are looking for allowing
all Palestinian freely to move from the
south to the north and vice versa we
cannot accept keeping our people 1.5
million Palestinians in the southern
part of Gaza kept hostages under the
Israeli policy or Within part of the
Israeli internal political games between
the right and the left therefore this is
the Baseline where we can build on okay
let's bring in El jazer senior political
analysts M Bashar now to help unpack a
lot of this I mean it seems like Joe
Biden is the only one that is confident
that any deal is going to be done by
next week do you think that Biden has
jumped the gun here well let's call it a
tactic it's even more than a
tactic it's
optimism that's strategic it's strategy
by optimism right because when you are
the superpower and you've been trying to
mediate this thing for a while right and
you come to a point where there are a a
good number of factors one we are
approaching Ramadan two we are
approaching the end of the fifth month
of
War uh International Community is
getting fed up uh there's a bit of a
fatigue on both
sides so once you launch into
optimism whoever is not responding with
you is the party pooper is responsible
for suddenly turning this uh you know
Christmas uh it's Christmas every day
into hell in Gaza notably Hamas right
but also Netanyahu and that's why I
think Hamas was basically squeezed by
that kind of a tactic on the part of the
uh of the Trump White House whereby they
say well it seems like the parties have
agreed we probably could start on Monday
let's go for it well if Haman says no
wait a minute I didn't get anything new
it sounds like it's the uh Outsider but
this also puts pressure on Israel as
well doesn't it it does and that also
should give us a pause about the growing
tension uh between Biden and Netanyahu
not by Israel and the United States or
by the United States and Israel but
clearly Biden at least in private is
getting fed up with Netanyahu because
Netanyahu has been humiliating him like
there's no tomorrow so I think both men
are sort of in different
calendars I think Netanyahu wants to run
the
clock on Biden so he can make whatever
arrangements with his potential
successor Trump he prefers Trump to
Biden Biden would
prefer to somehow directly or indirectly
get rid of Netanyahu and get in someone
like gun or or whoever that is more
amenable to American ideas so this kind
of a move right that could see us St go
through after Ramadan with a with a
ceasefire right this could lead to the
implosion of the Israeli government and
if such they definitely Netanyahu is out
that's not necessarily to the disliking
of Biden no can we just talk about the
Optics of all this because when Biden
was talking he was explaining all of
this on a late night comedy talk show
which is quite an unusual Place uh for
these remarks to be to be put out there
as well as we saw him eating an ice
cream while he was talking about famine
and the plight of the Palestinians what
do you make of just the look The Optics
of this we didn't really figure out what
kind of ice cream it is right um but my
sense is he's been doing that for a
while instead of making sort of a grand
State of the Union type statements where
you know he SS behinds it and if didn't
work out then he's totally embarrassed
to do it on a casual on the stop I'm thr
away comment isn't it yes yeah so if it
doesn't work it doesn't sound like you
know he got out of the Lim and made a
major doctrinal speech of strategy of
some sort he's basically on the go
eating an ice cream while people are
starving in Gaza but what the heck you
know he is trying to end the
humanitarian situation if it worked it's
great if it doesn't work well it's
another ice cream yeah indeed well we
have to leave it there Mar but we'll be
talking to you over the next few hours
Maran Bashar our senior political
analyst thank you